Writerside/topics/Basics-3-Main-Types.md, before:

# Basics: 3 Main Types

These 3 types all revolve around a one-on-one framework, as things begin to break down as more people are introduced.
However, most combat is indeed 1v1, so there's a place to start.

## Terms

Turn
: One character's set of actions.

Cycle
: After all characters have performed a Turn.

## Types

Each different battle type has its own quirks in how its used, and each one achieves a different goal.
Some are to allow for the ease of battling, some streamline the process, and some throw it in the trash entirely and go full chaos.

### Strict

Strict battles are a theoretical framework, only really usable in EOT.
This doesn't have much development toward it.

It utilizes a strict health system, with numbers.
Attacks do damage, quite like most turn-based systems work.
However, for RP, it doesn't function as well as it should, which is why this remains mostly unused except for the odd case or two.

### Normal

These should be some of the more common battles taking place, with much more toward them.

#### Phases

Each character gets 2 phases: *Attack* and *Defend*.
A single turn consists of a Defend then an Attack phase, in that order.

Defend is meant to react to the enemy's oncoming attacks, only allowing for minor counterattacks to be performed.

Attack, on the other hand, is meant to throw out attacks toward the enemy and give enough while also not forcing.
This means telegraphing to the other user where the attack *would* hit, not if it ever actually does.
Focus on intended target but eliminate any "playing as the enemy", so to speak.

#### "Health"

If I ever say "Health" in reference to a Normal-type battle, it is really a sort of stamina-esque mechanic.
Both opponents need to be aware of each OC's limits, and understand when they should go down, out, or dead in some cases.

Commit message:

combat update
officially outlines the new combat system

Writerside/topics/Basics-3-Main-Types.md, after:

# Basics: 3 Main Types

These 3 types all revolve around a one-on-one framework, as things begin to break down as more people are introduced.
However, most combat is indeed 1v1, so there's a place to start.

## Terms

Turn
: One character's set of actions.

Cycle
: After all characters have performed a Turn.

## Types

Each different battle type has its own quirks in how its used, and each one achieves a different goal.
Some are to allow for the ease of battling, some streamline the process, and some throw it in the trash entirely and go full chaos.

### Strict

Strict battles are a theoretical framework, only really usable in EOT.
This doesn't have much development toward it.

It utilizes a strict health system, with numbers.
Attacks do damage, quite like most turn-based systems work.
However, for RP, it doesn't function as well as it should, which is why this remains mostly unused except for the odd case or two.

### Normal

These should be some of the more common battles taking place, with much more toward them.

#### Phases

Each character gets 2 phases: *Attack* and *Defend*.
A single turn consists of a Defend then an Attack phase, in that order.

Defend is meant to react to the enemy's oncoming attacks, only allowing for minor counterattacks to be performed.

Attack, on the other hand, is meant to throw out attacks toward the enemy and give enough while also not forcing.
This means telegraphing to the other user where the attack *would* hit, not if it ever actually does.
Focus on intended target but eliminate any "playing as the enemy", so to speak.

##### "Health"

If I ever say "Health" in reference to a Normal-type battle, it is really a sort of stamina-esque mechanic.
Both opponents need to be aware of each OC's limits, and understand when they should go down, out, or dead in some cases.

##### Going First

To decide who goes first, either it's in agreement between the parties out of character, OR it's based on relative speed.
Relative speed isn't concrete; it's just who's "faster".
What that means under a rigorous definition is up to you.

##### First Strikes

A first strike is just that; you get the jump on your opponent.
Instead of actually being an attack, it's considered an Advantage state, where the striker is GUARANTEED to go first.

### Lenient

The Lenient system has quite a few changes from the Normal system, which will be summarized in this list of bullet points.

* Concrete phases are gone. Just submit a message; it's fine.
* The one-message limit is gone. Submit as many as you like, HOWEVER:
  * If an attack hinges on an enemy's reaction, wait to send any more messages.
* Counteracting enemies is a bit more complex, as the base counteractions that normally happen in the Normal system may not occur as cleanly here.
* It's definitely rougher; more built for off-the-cuff battles rather than ones that were planned or that have proper entries.

## Conclusion

That's really it.
While there may be some missing, that will be added later.
For right now, this base system will work well for most combat situations, and I'd like to see how it pans out.
